\hspace*{2em}Given a set of DNA sequences (promoter region), the motif finding problem is to detect overrepresented motifs as well as known conserved motifs that are good candidates for being TF binding sites. Since coexpression of genes arises mainly from transcriptional coregulation, promoter regions of coregulated genes possibly contain some common motifs. In some cases, such motifs have been identified by biochemical and/or molecular genetic procedures (for example gel-shift assays). In general, however, most regulatory sequences remain to be identified. Therefore, a lot of algorithms were designed to search for statistically overrepresented motifs in the promoter region of such a set of coexpressed genes \cite{Das2007}. Based on these algorithms, new methods integrate DNA sequence data from coregulated genes and phylogenetic footprinting have significant improved motif finding in higher organisms \cite{Hon01052006}. We won't investigate all existing motif finding algorithms in detail, rather than introduce two usefull tools for motif finding tasks.

\hspace*{2em}The MEME Suite(\url{http://meme-suite.org/})is a motif-based sequence analysis tool with multiple functions \cite{Bailey94fittinga}. Given DNA, RNA or protein sequences, \textit{de novo} motif discovery and motif enrichment by comparing input sequence with motif databases can be done. By incorporating various resources like GeneOntology (GO) databases, further comparison of discovered motifs and annotation can also be achieved. The core idea of this tool is using MEME (Multiple EM for Motif Elicitation) algorithm\cite{Bailey94fittinga} to discover motifs except for motifs with insertions or deletions because it does not allow gaps. To overcome this limitation, the group incorporated a recent algorithm GLAM2 into MEME suite for gapped motif\cite{Frith}.  

\hspace*{2em}HOMER (Hypergeometric Optimization of Motif EnRichment) is a software suite for ChIP-Seq analysis designed for peak finding and downstream data analysis\cite{Heinz2010}. HOMER contains a differential motif discovery algorithm that uses ZOOPS scoring (zero or one occurence per sequence) coupled with hypergeometric enrichment calculations to determine motif enrichment. HOMER contains two powerful tools, "findMotif.pl" and "findMotifsGenome.pl", that discover motifs in promoter and genomic regions respectively. 
